---
title: Car Fleet
date: 2023-05-20 00:00:00 -400
categories: [Coding Questions, Medium]
tags: [python, stack, sorting]
---


### View *Car Fleet* on [LeetCode](https://leetcode.com/problems/car-fleet/){:target="_blank"}

## Statistics  

**Time Complexity**  
O(n log n) - We must sort the array, and the built-in sorting algorithm takes O(n log n), and since this operation takes the longest time, it results in our O(n log n) time complexity.

**Space Complexity**  
O(n) - We store each element from `position` and `speed` in a new list, resulting in the O(n) space complexity. 
Although technically, it requires O(2 * n) space, the big O complexity only represents the growth rate, and multiplying a linearly increasing function by two does not alter it.

**Runtime Beats**  
99.92% of other submissions  

**Memory Beats**  
21.16% of other sumbissions  

## Explanation
We must perform a few operations on the `position` and `speed` lists to prepare our list for iteration. The first is `zip(),` which combines the elements at the same index from each list, creates a tuple of those values, and then returns a generator of the tuples. We then must convert the generator into a list by performing the `list()` function on it.

Once we have a list of each car's position and speed, we can execute the `.sort()` method to re-arrange the data in a way that allows us to solve the problem the easiest. 

We must also declare and initialize `fleets` and `front_speed` to 0.

We can now begin iterating through each car's position and speed, starting from the end and ending at the front; this can be done by adding `[::-1]` to our list `pos_speed`.

We will approach this problem by calculating the car's time (`(target-pos)/speed`) to reach the target. 
Since the list was sorted in increasing order using the cars' positions, we can determine which cars will combine into a fleet; this is determined by `if time > front_speed:`. 
*   If the car's time is faster, it will combine into a fleet and does not affect the number of `fleets`. 
*   If the car's time is **not** faster, it will create a new fleet (`fleets += 1`) and re-assign `font_speed` to the new speed cars can not surpass without becoming a fleet.

Once all the cars have been iterated through, we simply `return fleets.` 

# Data Structure Used

**Stack -** A stack is similar to an array, except you are only allowed to push/pop (add/remove) from the end of the stack. A stack follows the first in, last out, or FILO theme.

Since Python already has O(1) push (append) and pop (pop) operations, we do not need to use any libraries.

**Visual Examples**
Visual of a stack being mutated, [click](https://cdn.programiz.com/sites/tutorial2program/files/stack.png){:target="_blank"} to view

NeetCode is a YouTuber who has a very comprehensive video on this question and has plenty of visuals that help with the comprehension of this problem, [click](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Pr6T-3yB9RM&t=732s){:target="_blank"} to view.

## Solution  

```python
class Solution:
    def carFleet(self, target: int, position: List[int], speed: List[int]) -> int:
        pos_speed = list(zip(position,speed))
        pos_speed.sort()
        fleets = 0
        front_speed = 0

        for pos,speed in pos_speed[::-1]:
            time = (target-pos)/speed
            if time > front_speed:
                fleets += 1
                front_speed = time


        return fleets
```